Unique Crisis Info

Name: 2012 Aurora Shooting
Key Person: James Eagen Holmes
Key Organization: The Community First Foundation
Kind: Mass Shooting
Date and Time: July 20, 2012 12:30 AM
Locations: Aurora, Colorado United States
Human Impact: Twelve people were killed at a multiplex Cinemark theatre in Aurora Colorda during the midnight screening of the film The Dark Knight Rises. This incident was considered the deadliest shooting since The Columbine massacre on April 20, 1999. Several other incidents followed this one at other theatres where several other men were arrested for acts of violence or attempting to carry through with an act of violence. The Presidential Candidates at the time, Barrack Obama and Mitt Romney, suspended campagin advertising and visited victims at Hospitals. Actor Christian Bale along with other sports teams visited several victims and expressed their condolences. There was a great fear that similar incidents would occur in cinemas across the United States and the world resulting in an increase in security in cinemas throughout the country. This once again brought the issue of gun control to the surface of news and politics.
Economic Impact: The Organization The Community First Foundation recieved substantial donations from Warner Bros. to aid the vicimts of the shooting. The theatre where the incident occurred was shut down for months before reopening on Januray 2013, resulting in a great loss for the theatre owners. Funeral expenses incurred by the vicimt's families was paid for by Cinemark. Gun sales in Colorado, Washington, Florida, and several other states grew tremendously after the incident along with an increase in background checks.
Resources Needed: Cinemas and theatres around the world began hiring more employess to fill out the roles needed in their security increase. Companies associated with the film and theatre, Warner Bros. and Cinemark, donated a great amount of time to aid the families of the victims.
Ways to Help: Donations can still provided to the Comunity First Foundation for the families of the vicims of the incident. Be warry of specific people entering theatres. Cooperate with theatre employees by not wearing suspicious looking clothing or bringing any possible weapon props to events they might be holding.


Name: 2010 Copiago mining accident
Key Person: 
Key Organization: San Esteban Mining Company
Kind: Natural Disaster
Date and Time: August 5, 2010
Locations: Copiapo in northern Chile, South America
Human Impact: The country had just experienced an earthquake and tsunami earlier that year, so news of the workers predicament garnered much empathy from the population of Chile which led the national governments take over of search and rescue attempts. Government and international efforts to rescue the miners were greatly driven by the empathy and passion felt by the population of Chile and those around the world who expressed their sympathy.
Economic Impact: $20 Million dollars were spent on the several rescue plans implemented in an attempt to save the miners, with a third of that coming from private donations and the rest coming from the government and mine owners.
Resources Needed: The Government first used a Strata 950 model raise borer drilling rig to create an escape shaft but this plan was halted due to the danger falling rock debris. They then used a Schramm Inc. T130XD air core drill, which is normally used by oil and gas industries, mineral exploration, and water wells to widen one of the holes created by the previously used drill rig but was unfortunately wrecked upon hitting a metal bar in an old working, which was then followed by wearing out of the second drill. The third and last attempt involved a Canadian made RIG-421 oil drilling rig which was able to drill large deep holes at faster rate than the minind drills. Cooperation and resources of companies and individuals came from around the world such as Latin America, South America, United States and Canada, with developmental aid coming from NASA specialists.
Ways to Help: Miners have already been rescued but donations can probably still be made to an organizaiton associated with helping the miners.

Non-Unique Crisis Info
Name: 
Key Person: 
Key Organization: 
Kind: 
Date and Time: 
Locations: 
Human Impact:
Economic Impact:
Resources Needed: 
Ways to Help:

Organization Info:
Name:

